---
title: Shortcuts
description: Learn how to display and define keyboard shortcuts in your app.
---

## Credits

I just want to say that this composable is coming directly from [Nuxt UI](https://ui.nuxt.com/). I am not the creator of this composable, I just wanted to share it with you because I think it's a really cool feature to have in your project. You can find the original docs here: [Nuxt UI - Shortcuts](https://ui.nuxt.com/getting-started/shortcuts).

> Thanks Nuxt UI ♥

## `defineShortcuts`

The `defineShortcuts` composable allows you to define keyboard shortcuts in your app really easily. Try it out by pressing `Ctrl + v`

:ShortcutsExOne

```vue
<template>
  <div></div>
</template>
<script lang="ts" setup>
  defineShortcuts({
    ctrl_v: {
      usingInput: false,
      handler: () => {
        useSonner("Nice!", { description: "You just used a shortcut!" });
      },
    },
  });
</script>
```

Shortcuts keys are written as the literal keyboard key value. Combinations are made with `_` separator. Chained shortcuts are made with `-` separator.

Modifiers are also available:

- `meta`: acts as `Command` for MacOS and `Control` for others
- `ctrl`: acts as `Control`
- `shift`: acts as `Shift` and is only necessary for alphabetic keys

Examples of keys:

- `escape`: will trigger by hitting `Esc`
- `meta_k`: will trigger by hitting `⌘` and `K` at the same time on MacOS, and `Ctrl` and `K` on Windows and Linux
- `ctrl_k`: will trigger by hitting `Ctrl` and `K` at the same time on MacOS, Windows and Linux
- `shift_e`: will trigger by hitting `Shift` and `E` at the same time on MacOS, Windows and Linux
- `?`: will trigger by hitting ? on some keyboard layouts, or for example Shift and /, which results in ? on US Mac keyboards
- `g-d`: will trigger by hitting `g` then `d` with a maximum delay of 800ms by default
- `arrowleft`: will trigger by hitting `←` (also: `arrowright`, `arrowup`, `arrowdown`)

### `usingInput`

Prop: `usingInput?: string | boolean`

By default, `usingInput` is `false`, meaning it will only trigger when no input is focused. When set to `true`, the shortcut will also trigger when any input is focused.

For a more advanced behavior, `usingInput` can be set to the name of an input, so it only triggers when focusing this specific input.

::ShowCase

:ShortcutsExTwo

#code

```vue
<template>
  <UILabel>Enter your name</UILabel>
  <UIInput v-model="query" name="queryInput" />
</template>

<script setup lang="ts">
  const query = ref("");

  defineShortcuts({
    enter: {
      usingInput: "queryInput",
      handler: () => {
        useSonner.info("Triggered", {
          description: query.value
            ? `You just typed ${query.value} and pressed enter!`
            : `You just pressed enter with nothing typed!`,
        });
      },
    },
  });
</script>
```

::

### Simple shortcut

In case the shortcut does not need any config, it can be written as a function.

```ts
defineShortcuts({
  "?": () => openHelpModal(),
});
```

## `useShortcuts`

To display shortcuts in your app according to the user's OS, you can use the `useShortcuts` composable.

```vue
<script setup>
  const { metaSymbol } = useShortcuts();
</script>

<template>
  <UKbd>{{ metaSymbol }}</UKbd>
</template>
```

_`metaSymbol` will display either `⌘` on MacOS or `Ctrl` on any other OS_
